---
title: "Introduction"
date: 2019-09-27
layout: post
---
Hi. I am Quang Ong. Otherwise known as TheEpicCowOfLife.

I'm currently an Australian high school student, programming for fun. In late 2018, I got hooked into competitive programming, which completely took over my waking thoughts. I've learnt many things, and I hope to share them with you, the reader.

In this blog, I plan to talk about my programming stints in year 10, geek out about segment trees and graph algorithms,  as well as present some really really nice problems that i have solved.

I spent a lot of time playing around with processing 3, making psychedellic RGB experiences that emerge from simple rules. I plan to recreate these otherworldly experience in the browser using p5.js, and chronicle my thought processes.

Here is a (relatively tame) taste of things to come. You may or may not notice a distinct lack of RGB

<script src="../../../p5.min.js"></script>
<div id="sketch-holder">
  <script>
function windowResized() {
  var canvasDiv = document.getElementById('sketch-holder');
  let width = canvasDiv.offsetWidth; 
  resizeCanvas(width, width*9/16);
}
    
function setup() {
  var canvasDiv = document.getElementById('sketch-holder');
  var width = canvasDiv.offsetWidth;
  var canvas = createCanvas(width, width*9/16);
  canvas.parent('sketch-holder');
}

var t = 0;
var num_balls = 50;
function draw() {
  background(220);
  for (let i = 0; i < 50; i++){
    circle(i*width/50, height/2 + sin(t*(i+50)) * height/4, 20);
  }
  t += 0.001;
}

  </script>
</div>

Try this on mobile. Rotate your screen to portrait. To landscape. IT RESIZES IT AUTOMATICALLY. WORDS CANNOT EXPRESS HOW LONG IT TOOK FOR ME TO WORK OUT HOW TO DO THAT.

*_ahem_

The other aspect of my blog that I will cover will be about competitive programming. I hope to present some algorithms in an interactive, intuitive and motivated way, as well as attempt to explain how I solve problems. I have so many ideas floating around!

Thanks for stopping by~


